GUIDE FOR AUTHORS Psychiatria Polska is a body of Polish Psychiatric Association, a scientific journal publishing primarily works in the field of psychiatry. In the qualification of papers for publication the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki, and in the case of research works -the evaluation of bioethics committees and implementation of international rules of conducting experiments on animals are taken into account. 1. The journal accepts for publication: a) original (research) papers), b) reviews, c) case studies, d) letters to the Editors regarding papers published in the journal, as well as issues important for our milieu. The authors do not receive remuneration for copyrights and transfer indefinitely the copyrights to the published text fully to the publisher (KRW PTP). The Editorial Board makes every effort to ensure the highest quality of works, while the Authors are responsible for their substantive and ethical content. The works are published in print in Polish as well as in Open Access mode, in common Internet access (at www.psychiatriapolska.pl) in Polish and in parallel English version. Their availability is regulated by CC-BY Creative Commons license and the SHERPA RoMEO Blue rule. The legal principles are regulated by the Polish Act of 4 February 1994 (The legal principles are regulated by the Polish Act of 4 February 1994 (with later amendments) on copyright and related rights. The Editors does not publish in one issue more than two works of the same first author. All of the works must be accompanied by text in English (translation). The English version should keep the applicable rules for text editing in Polish. Works without English-language version and works without Polish-language version will not be subjected to editorial assessment or review. 2. Length -including figures, tables, list of references and a summary -must not exceed for original papers and reviews 16 pages, for case studies – 10 pages, and letters to the Editors -5 pages (1 page – 1800 signs with spaces). 3. Papers should be submitted through the journal electronic editorial system, available at http://www.editorialsystem.com/PP The authors, who have not previously created an account in the system, are asked to register by using the "Create new account" option on the left side of the screen. After completing the registration form, a message will be sent at the given e-mail to confirm the correctness of the given author's email addresses (at this address will be sent correspondence from the system). The authors, who have already been in contact with the system, can log into it by typing the e-mail address and password on the right side of the screen (in order to possible recovery of the password to the system the author can use the "I forgot my password" option). After logging into the system, in order to send the work to the editorial office, click on "Submit new article" button available at the top of the section "Your articles". After entering the work's title and selecting its type, windows for entering the necessary elements of the article will appear. Between successive windows the author can move by clicking the buttons "Previous / Next Step" or the name of the label on the left. The final step of submitting the work is "Send to Editors" option -this step provides a summary of previously entered data of the article and information about any missing items or breaches of formal requirements of submission of work to the editorial office. Adhere to the information given by the system. Make sure that all required information on the authors, their order, affiliation are entered correctly in all places required by the system. In case of a correct and complete fulfillment of all elements of the work, in the "Send to Editor", option, at the bottom, a button enabling the final transfer of work to the editorial office will appear. Follow the information provided by the system. Make sure that all the required data about the authors, their order and affiliation are entered correctly in all places required by the system. If all the elements of the work are correctly and completely filled in, a button will appear at the bottom in the "Send to the editor" option, allowing the final submission of the work to the editorial office. 4. At the given e-mail address of the corresponding author confirmation will be sent that the paper has been received by the editorial office and that a signature has been assigned to it, which is not tantamount to referral of the paper for review nor with its acceptance for publication. 5. A person participating in the publishing process in KRW PTP journals is obliged to submit a declaration regarding the consent to the processing of their personal data necessary for the publishing process and dissemination of the publication by the publisher (KRW PTP) and entities cooperating for these purposes: Technet printing house, Poczta Polska S.A. The author submitting the work on behalf of himself and the co-authors is required to obtain their prior consent in writing to the processing of personal data, and provide it to the publisher. The author submitting the work (and any co-authors) are required to conclude a contract for the transfer of economic copyrights to the work to the publisher. The contract form, after downloading from the editorial system, printing, signing by the author (all co-authors) and scanning the document, must be entered into this system when submitting the work. After accepting the work for publication, the author may receive a copy of the contract signed by the person representing the publisher. In the editorial system in the window "The author's statement " a file "Declaration pattern" is located, to be taken and completed by the person submitting the work. The authors are asked to submit declaration about a lack of sponsoring of the work or any form of financing or co-financing of the research or the paper itself (similarly, in the subsequent window "Was the paper financed from any external sources?”). Author submitting the sponsored work is obliged to declare that the authors of publication were not subjected to pressure from the sponsors in the course of research and its development. In the case of differentiated contribution of individual authors to the creation of the publication, their contribution should be specified (e.g. author of the concept, assumptions, methods, research protocol). In the case of equal participation in the creation of the publication, under the names of the authors, appropriate information should be added. Submitting author is obliged to state that authors had free access to all the research material on which publication is based. The next statement concerns the fact that the notified work has not been submitted for publication in another journal. The experimental works containing the results of studies on humans or animals must be accompanied by a certificate or statement of approval of the project by the competent research ethics committee. The main responsibility for the proper administration of the data, preventing from scientific misconduct is on the part of the submitting author of the manuscript. Upon detection of a situation where someone has made a substantial contribution to the development of publication and his/her share has not been disclosed as one of the authors or in the acknowledgments (ghost-writing) -and on the contrary -if the person’s participation is minimal or none at all and yet he/she is mentioned as the author/co-author (guest-authorship), the Editors are obliged to notify this to the proper authorities. The introduction of changes in the composition, the order of the authors or the contribution requires submission of a declaration signed by all the authors. 6. To all of the works mentioned in paragraph 1 as: a), b), c) a summary in Polish and English should be attached of min. 150, max. 250 words. In the case of original papers only, there must be a structured summary, which should include in separate paragraphs: 1 aim of the study, 2 method, 3 results, 4 conclusions. Below, the key words (no more than three) from those included in the Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) must be listed. 7. The text of original papers should be divided into the following chapters: introduction, material, method, results, discussion of results and conclusions. 8. The works should be prepared in electronic format (Word for Windows). One page should contain 1800 signs. Titles and subtitles should be written in the text fount (no capital letters). The decimal numbers should be marked with dots. The text should be written in a uniform black color. Colored markings in the text are allowed only to identify the changes required by reviewers (they will not be included in the print). Tables must be performed in Word for Windows. In tables and descriptions of drawings, the Arial Narrow CE letter size of 10 points must be used. The number of tables, graphs and drawings should be limited to the necessary minimum. The printed version of the journal do not include colors; color versions, including for instance pictures, may be included in the Internet version. 9. In order to keep brevity, Editors kindly requests considering only the necessary references, strictly connected with the theme of work (no more than 50 items), including publications in Polish journals. The references should contain only these items which are cited in the text. In the text, the number of references position ought to be indicated in square brackets and the numbers should be given according to the order in which the works in the text are quoted (consecutively). Each reference position should be written in a new line, preceded by a number. Please apply uniform punctuation (standard Vancouver) according to the pattern: For papers published in journals: surnames of the authors followed by their name initials, title of the article, name of the journal (abbreviated according to Index Medicus), year, volume, pages.: Example: Kowalski N, Nowak A. Schizophrenia – own research. Psychiatr. Pol. 1919, 33 (4): 210-223. If the number of the authors of cited position exceeds six: Kowalska A, Kowalski B, Kowalewska C, Kowalewski D, Kowal E, Kowal F, et al. For books: surnames of the authors followed by their initials, title of the book, place of publication, publisher, year of publication. Example: Kowalski ZG. Psychiatry. London: Press; 1923. For a chapter of a book: surnames of the authors followed by their name initials, title. In: surnames and name initials of the editor of the book, title, place of publication, publisher, year of publication pages. Example: Szymaƒski BM. Depressive states. In: Kowalski AM, G∏ogowski P, editors. Psychiatry Manual. 2nd ed. Paris: Psyche; 1972. p. 203–248. Page numbers should be separated by a pause with no intervals and no by hyphen (short pause). 10. Authors should respect the accuracy of psychiatric nomenclatures and the use of international pharmacological names. Abbreviations should be used according to the International System of Units (SI). 11. Original papers, reviews and case studies are reviewed anonymously by at least two reviewers (double-blind review). After receiving the review, the author is asked to submit the text with the reviewers' remarks (with color indicating the introduced changes based on reviews) included in the same way as during its first application, and to attach a letter to the Editors informing of all changes made as a result of the review in the editorial system in the point no 10 "The answer to the reviews”. Similarly, translation of the text must be submitted in Polish, amended according to the recommendations of reviewers (please also ensure that the final version of the two texts maintain the proper order of references in the standard Vancouver). These texts must be submitted within two months. Failure to comply with this deadline will be considered a resignation from the publication. Qualification for publication takes place after receiving the file containing the changes suggested by the reviewers, meeting all the content and formal requirements. The authors are informed about the decision via e-mail generated by the editorial system. 12. The Editors reserve the right to correct stylistic errors and nomenclatures and to make the necessary abbreviations without contact with the author. 13. It is possible to have the paper accepted for printing published in the form of ahead of print (online first). It will appear on the website of Psychiatria Polska with DOI number within two months from issuing the invoice paid thereafter. After the waiting period in the queue for publication, it will be published in the standard version (electronic and paper). 14. Papers that do not meet the formal requirements may be rejected or sent back for correction before the initial assessment by the editors. 